feat(database): Query sources (#8670)
getsentry/sentry-docs: src/docs/product/performance/queries.mdx

The gif below provides a detailed walkthrough of the **Queries** page.

<div style="position: relative; padding-bottom: calc(48.68055555555556% + 41px); height: 0; width: 100%">
  <iframe
    src="https://demo.arcade.software/v66mxydrZRsNxRgNMYUl?embed"
    frameborder="0"
    loading="lazy"
    webkitallowfullscreen
    mozallowfullscreen
    allowfullscreen
    style="position: absolute; top: 0; left: 0; width: 100%; height: 100%;color-scheme: light;"
    title="Performance - Queries - Queries Page Walkthrough"
  ></iframe>

> </div>

Author: I removed it when I converted to MDX because it made the entire page fail to build, not now it seems fine, bringing it back! Does Arcade allow customizing how much padding there is under the arcade embed?

At the top of the page, queries per minute, average duration, and time spent are shown for the selected time range. The full query is shown below these metrics, followed by graphs for queries per minute and average duration. The query's source in the code is also shown if it is available.

At the bottom, you can find a list of endpoints the query is found in, sorted by the most time your application spent in that span.

If you want to investigate a specific endpoint, click on it to open a sidebar showing some sample events.

The gif below provides a detailed walkthrough of the **Query Summary** page.

<div style="position: relative; padding-bottom: calc(48.68055555555556% + 41px); height: 0; width: 100%">
  <iframe
    src="https://demo.arcade.software/MTzviZtIiN7ZCmNFVJg4?embed"
    frameborder="0"
    loading="lazy"
    webkitallowfullscreen
    mozallowfullscreen
    allowfullscreen
    style="position: absolute; top: 0; left: 0; width: 100%; height: 100%;color-scheme: light;"
    title="Performance - Queries - Query Summary Page Walkthrough"
  ></iframe>
</div>

## Query Sources

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Query Sources are currently supported in Sentry's Laravel and Django SDKs.

```

Let's move this up so that users don't read the entire section only to find that it's not supported for their SDK

> A query's source is the location in your application's code that triggered the query. Sentry automatically determines the query source by examining the stack traceh and attaches the information to the query data. In order to reduce the SDK's performance impact on your application, Sentry only attaches query sources to queries that are slower than a <PlatformLink to="/configuration/options">configurable threshold</PlatformLink>. If query sources are often missing, you can reduce this threshold.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A query's source is the location in your application's code that triggered the query. Sentry automatically determines the query source by examining the stack trace and attaches the source to the query data. To reduce the performance impact, Sentry only attaches query sources to queries that are slower than a <PlatformLink to="/configuration/options">configurable threshold</PlatformLink>. If you want to see more query sources, you can reduce this threshold.
```

Author: @vivianyentran I think that's because you had that particular platform selected. The link doesn't specify JavaScript

> You can see the query's source on the [event details page](/product/sentry-basics/concepts/tracing/event-detail/) next to other span properties in the span waterfall as well underneath the query description on the Query Summary page. If you have a [source code management integration](/product/integrations/source-code-mgmt/) enabled, Sentry will also show a link to open the query's source in the relevant repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can see the query's source underneath the query description on the **Query Summary** page, as well as on the [**Event Details** page](/product/sentry-basics/concepts/tracing/event-detail/) next to other span properties in the span waterfall. If you have a [source code management integration](/product/integrations/source-code-mgmt/) enabled, Sentry will also show a link to open the query's source in the relevant repository.
```
I would move the query summary page up first since it comes up first in the typical user flow.

If the source link is only shown on a specific page, I would include that info as well. But if shown in both event details & query summary pages, then ok as is.

> You can see the query's source on the [event details page](/product/sentry-basics/concepts/tracing/event-detail/) next to other span properties in the span waterfall as well underneath the query description on the Query Summary page. If you have a [source code management integration](/product/integrations/source-code-mgmt/) enabled, Sentry will also show a link to open the query's source in the relevant repository.

Author: Added!

At the top of the page, queries per minute, average duration, and time spent are shown for the selected time range. The full query is shown below these metrics, followed by graphs for queries per minute and average duration. The query's source in the code is also shown if it is available.

At the bottom, you can find a list of endpoints the query is found in, sorted by the most time your application spent in that span.

If you want to investigate a specific endpoint, click on it to open a sidebar showing some sample events.

The gif below provides a detailed walkthrough of the **Query Summary** page.

<div style="position: relative; padding-bottom: calc(48.68055555555556% + 41px); height: 0; width: 100%">
  <iframe
    src="https://demo.arcade.software/MTzviZtIiN7ZCmNFVJg4?embed"
    frameborder="0"
    loading="lazy"
    webkitallowfullscreen
    mozallowfullscreen
    allowfullscreen
    style="position: absolute; top: 0; left: 0; width: 100%; height: 100%;color-scheme: light;"
    title="Performance - Queries - Query Summary Page Walkthrough"
  ></iframe>
</div>

## Query Sources

> Query Sources are currently supported in Sentry's Laravel and Django SDKs.

Author: Links are good!

> A query's source is the location in your application's code that triggered the query. Sentry automatically determines the query source by examining the stack trace and attaches the source to the query data. To reduce the performance impact, Sentry only attaches query sources to queries that are slower than a <PlatformLink to="/configuration/options">configurable threshold</PlatformLink>. If you want to see more query sources, you can reduce this threshold.

Reviewer: Can we specify which config option users should configure?

I found this [python config option](https://docs.sentry.io/platforms/python/configuration/options/#enable-db-query-source) (which I assume works for Django) says query source is disabled by default. So would users need to enable it first? If so, we should call this out in line 130 as a pre-req. And I assume the threshold config is `db_query_source_threshold_ms`.

For [laravel](https://docs.sentry.io/platforms/php/guides/laravel/configuration/laravel-options/), do users also need to enable this config option`'sql_origin' => env('SENTRY_TRACE_SQL_ORIGIN_ENABLED', true),`? Not sure how to configure the threshold though, so might need more instruction.

Since this only works for 2 SDKs atm, I think we should be more explicit with the instructions here. Tbh, I had trouble finding the config options, so I'd expect it to be frustrating for users as well.

Author: Oof, good questions. This is a little complicated!

- the supported SDKs are Laravel and Python (not just Django). Laravel is a single entire platform that supports this feature, in that framework. In the Python platform, several integrations are supported (Django, SQLAlchemy, asyncpg)
- right now, in Laravel the feature is enabled by default. The `SENTRY_TRACE_SQL_ORIGIN_ENABLED` option controls it, like you said. Also, there's no way to control the slowness threshold. This is because this is a pre-existing feature. Python and all future platforms will have the threshold
- in Python, the feature is currently disabled by default, but it will be enabled by default in a more recent SDK version (available before this feature is released)

What's the best way to handle all this weird complexity?

> A query's source is the location in your application's code that triggered the query. Sentry automatically determines the query source by examining the stack trace and attaches the source to the query data. To reduce the performance impact, Sentry only attaches query sources to queries that are slower than a <PlatformLink to="/configuration/options">configurable threshold</PlatformLink>. If you want to see more query sources, you can reduce this threshold.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A query's source is the location in your application's code that triggered the query. Sentry automatically determines the query source by examining the stack trace and attaches the source to the query data.
```
Moved the config stuff up so this part focuses on the product info

> You can see the query's source underneath the query description on the **Query Summary** page, as well as on the [**Event Details** page](/product/sentry-basics/concepts/tracing/event-detail/) next to other span properties in the span waterfall. If you have a [source code management integration](/product/integrations/source-code-mgmt/) enabled, Sentry will also show a link to open the query's source in the relevant repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can see the query's source underneath the query description on the **Query Summary** page, as shown in the image below. You can also find the query's source on the [**Event Details** page](/product/sentry-basics/concepts/tracing/event-detail/) next to other span properties in the span waterfall. If you have a [source code management integration](/product/integrations/source-code-mgmt/) enabled, Sentry will also show a link to open the query's source in the relevant repository.
```
